Bar Graphs - 
You want to compare two or more values in the same category
You want to compare parts of a whole
You don’t have too many groups (less than 10 works best)
You want to understand how multiple similar data sets relate to each 
other

Line Chart - 
line charts help to visualize data in a compact and precise format 
which makes it easy to rapidly scan information in order to 
understand trends. Line charts are used to show resulting data 
relative to a continuous variable
You want to understand trends, patterns, and fluctuations in your 
data
You want to compare different yet related data sets with multiple 
series
You want to make projections beyond your data

Scatterplot - 
Scatterplots are the right data visualizations to use when there 
are many different data points, and you want to highlight 
similarities in the data set. This is useful when looking for 
outliers or for understanding the distribution of your data.
You want to show the relationship between two variables
You want a compact data visualization

Sparklines - 
Sparklines are arguably the best data visualization for showing 
trends.
You can pair it with a metric that has a current status value 
tracked over a specific time period
You want to show a specific trend behind a metric

Pie Chart -  
You want to compare relative values
You want to compare parts of a whole
You want to rapidly scan metrics

Gauge - 
Gauges typically only compare two values on a scale: they compare a 
current value and a target value, which often indicates whether 
your progress is either good or bad, in the green or in the red.
You want to track single metrics that have a clear, in the moment 
objective

Waterfall Chart - 
A waterfall chart is an information visualization that should be 
used to show how an initial value is affected by intermediate 
values and resulted in a final value. The values can be either 
negative or positive.
To reveal the composition or makeup of a number

Funnel chart - 
A funnel chart is your data visualization of choice if you want to 
display a series of steps and the completion rate for each step.
Funnel charts are most often used to represent how something moves 
through different stages in a process. A funnel chart displays 
values as progressively decreasing proportions amounting to 100 
percent in total.

Heat Map - 
A heat map or choropleth map is a data visualization that shows the 
relationship between two measures and provides rating information.
To show a relationship between two measures
To illustrate an important detail
To use a rating system

Histogram - 
A histogram is a data visualization that shows the distribution of 
data over a continuous interval or certain time period.
To make comparisons in data sets over an interval or time
To show a distribution of data

Boxplot - 
A box plot, or box and whisker diagram, is a visual representation 
of displaying a distribution of data, usually across groups, based 
on a five number summary: the minimum, first quartile, the median 
(second quartile), third quartile, and the maximum.
To display or compare a distribution of data
To identify the minimum, maximum and median of data

Maps - 
Maps are an amazing visualization to add to your dashboard if 
organizing data geographically tells an important story for your 
business.
Geography is an important part of your data story

Tables - 
You want to display two-dimensional data sets that can be organized 
categorically
You can drill-down to break up large data sets with a natural 
drill-down path

Indicators - 
Indicators are useful for an at a glance view of a metric you need 
to keep track of. An indicator is simply a number showing the 
current value of whichever performance metric you’re tracking.

Area Chart - 
An area chart is very similar to a line graph but may do a better 
job at highlighting the relative differences between items. Use an 
area chart when you want to see how different items stack up or 
contribute to the whole.

Radar/Spider Chart - 
A radar chart is useful for understanding the relative differences 
between items in your data. Radar charts make it easy to compare 
multiple items and see if there are differences that may be worth 
further investigation.

Treemap - 
A treemap is a visual tool that can be used to break down the 
relationships between multiple variables in your data. They can be 
used strictly as a presentation vehicle to show how your products 
roll up into different categories, for example. A treemap can be 
broken down into 2-3 different layers to show the hierarchical 
relationship between items.